README.md, before:

# blog-pro-MERN-stack
This repository is the client side and the server side of Blog Project built with MERN stack techs  for educational purpose 

# Usage
- Use Mongo DB Cloud -> [Go To MongoDB Website](https://www.mongodb.com)
- Create Cloudinary account for storing the images -> [Go To Cloudinary Website](https://cloudinary.com/)
- Create `images` folder in the backend

## Environment Variables
Create `.env` file in the backend folder and add the following
```
PORT= 8000
MONGO_URI= your mongodb uri
NODE_ENV= development
JWT_SECRET= your jwt secret key
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME= your cloud name from cloudinary
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY= your api key from cloudinary
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET= your api secret from cloudinary
APP_EMAIL_ADDRESS= your email service for sending email
APP_EMAIL_PASSWORD= your email service password
CLIENT_DOMAIN= http://localhost:3000 
```


## Install Dependencies
**backend**
```
cd backend
npm install
```
**frontend**
```
cd frontend
npm install
```


## Run
**Run the backend**
```
cd backend
npm run dev
```

**Run the frontend**
```
cd frontend
npm start
```

Commit message:

feat: Implement Cloudinary image management, user profile photo upload, password reset, and user/post/comment deletion.

README.md, after:

# blog-pro-MERN-stack
This repository is the client side and the server side of Blog Project built with MERN stack techs  for educational purpose 

## Key Features
This project stands out with a robust set of features aimed at security, scalability, and ease of management:

- **Security First**: Implemented industry-standard security practices:
    - `helmet` for secure HTTP headers.
    - `xss-clean` for sanitizing user input.
    - `express-rate-limit` to prevent brute-force and DoS attacks.
    - `hpp` to protect against HTTP Parameter Pollution.
    - `cors` configured for restricted and secure cross-origin access.
- **Advanced Authentication**: Secure JWT-based authentication system including:
    - User Registration and Login.
    - **Email Verification** using `nodemailer`.
- **Admin Dashboard**: a dedicated panel for administrators to manage:
    - Users (view, delete).
    - Posts (create, edit, delete).
    - Categories (add, remove).
- **Media Management**: Integrated with **Cloudinary** for efficient and scalable image storage and serving.
- **Containerization**: Fully containerized with **Docker** and `docker-compose` for consistent development environments and easy deployment.
- **Robust Validation**: Server-side data validation using `Joi` and `joi-password-complexity` to ensure data integrity.

# Usage
- Use Mongo DB Cloud -> [Go To MongoDB Website](https://www.mongodb.com)
- Create Cloudinary account for storing the images -> [Go To Cloudinary Website](https://cloudinary.com/)
- Create `images` folder in the backend

## Environment Variables
Create `.env` file in the backend folder and add the following
```
PORT= 8000
MONGO_URI= your mongodb uri
NODE_ENV= development
JWT_SECRET= your jwt secret key
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME= your cloud name from cloudinary
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY= your api key from cloudinary
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET= your api secret from cloudinary
APP_EMAIL_ADDRESS= your email service for sending email
APP_EMAIL_PASSWORD= your email service password
CLIENT_DOMAIN= http://localhost:3000 
```


## Install Dependencies
**backend**
```
cd backend
npm install
```
**frontend**
```
cd frontend
npm install
```


## Run
**Run the backend**
```
cd backend
npm run dev
```

**Run the frontend**
```
cd frontend
npm start
```
